README.md, before:

# EventSchedule Docker Environment

This repository provides a Docker-based runtime for the [EventSchedule](https://github.com/eventschedule/eventschedule) Laravel application. It packages PHP-FPM, Nginx, MariaDB, and a scheduler worker so that the app can be bootstrapped quickly for local development, testing, or small-scale deployments.

## Features

- **Multi-service stack**: PHP-FPM application container, Nginx web server, MariaDB database, and a dedicated scheduler runner.
- **Automated bootstrap**: Composer dependencies, npm assets, database migrations, and the application key are provisioned automatically when the containers start.
- **Persistent volumes**: Shared Docker volumes retain database data, uploaded files, Composer vendors, and Node modules between restarts.
- **Configurable upstream branch**: Build arguments allow pinning to a specific EventSchedule git reference.

## Prerequisites

- Docker Engine 24.0 or newer
- Docker Compose v2 plugin
- Internet access on the build machine to fetch Composer, npm, and git dependencies

## Getting Started

1. Copy the upstream environment template and adjust credentials:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Update DB_PASSWORD and any additional overrides
   ```
2. Start the stack:
   ```bash
   docker compose up --build -d
   ```
3. Visit [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) to access the application.

The first startup can take several minutes while dependencies are installed and assets are compiled.

## Service Overview

| Service    | Description                                                                 |
|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `app`      | PHP-FPM container running the Laravel application code.                     |
| `web`      | Nginx container serving HTTP traffic and proxying PHP requests to `app`.    |
| `db`       | MariaDB 11 database with credentials controlled by `.env`.                  |
| `scheduler`| Long-running worker that executes `php artisan schedule:run` every minute.  |

## Environment Configuration

Key settings are defined in `.env` and forwarded into the containers. At a minimum you should set `DB_PASSWORD`. Additional variables supported by Laravel (e.g., `APP_URL`, `MAIL_` settings) can be added to tailor the runtime.

The Dockerfile clones the upstream EventSchedule repository. You can change the source branch or tag by editing `APP_REF` in `docker-compose.yml` or passing `--build-arg APP_REF=...` to `docker compose build`.

## Operational Tips

- **Logs**: View service logs with `docker compose logs -f <service>`.
- **Migrations**: The entrypoint runs `php artisan migrate --force` on startup. Run additional artisan commands via `docker compose exec app php artisan ...`.
- **Database access**: Connect to MariaDB on `localhost:3306` (when exposed) using credentials defined in `.env`.
- **Updating dependencies**: Rebuild the `app` image (`docker compose build app`) after modifying Composer or npm dependencies.

## Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for a history of notable updates.

## License

This repository packages the upstream EventSchedule application, which is subject to its own license. Review the upstream project for licensing details and ensure compliance when deploying.

Commit message:

Switch persistent data to bind mounts

README.md, after:

# EventSchedule Docker Environment

This repository provides a Docker-based runtime for the [EventSchedule](https://github.com/eventschedule/eventschedule) Laravel application. It packages PHP-FPM, Nginx, MariaDB, and a scheduler worker so that the app can be bootstrapped quickly for local development, testing, or small-scale deployments.

## Features

- **Multi-service stack**: PHP-FPM application container, Nginx web server, MariaDB database, and a dedicated scheduler runner.
- **Automated bootstrap**: Composer dependencies, npm assets, database migrations, and the application key are provisioned automatically when the containers start.
- **Persistent bind mounts**: Shared host directories retain database data, uploaded files, Composer vendors, and Node modules between restarts.
- **Configurable upstream branch**: Build arguments allow pinning to a specific EventSchedule git reference.

## Prerequisites

- Docker Engine 24.0 or newer
- Docker Compose v2 plugin
- Internet access on the build machine to fetch Composer, npm, and git dependencies

## Getting Started

1. Copy the upstream environment template and adjust credentials:
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   # Update DB_PASSWORD and any additional overrides
   ```
2. (Optional) Create host directories for bind-mounted data so permissions can be adjusted ahead of time:
   ```bash
   mkdir -p data/{db,storage,vendor,node_modules}
   ```

3. Start the stack:
   ```bash
   docker compose up --build -d
   ```
4. Visit [http://localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080) to access the application.

The first startup can take several minutes while dependencies are installed and assets are compiled.

## Service Overview

| Service    | Description                                                                 |
|------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `app`      | PHP-FPM container running the Laravel application code.                     |
| `web`      | Nginx container serving HTTP traffic and proxying PHP requests to `app`.    |
| `db`       | MariaDB 11 database with credentials controlled by `.env`.                  |
| `scheduler`| Long-running worker that executes `php artisan schedule:run` every minute.  |

## Environment Configuration

Key settings are defined in `.env` and forwarded into the containers. At a minimum you should set `DB_PASSWORD`. Additional variables supported by Laravel (e.g., `APP_URL`, `MAIL_` settings) can be added to tailor the runtime.

The Dockerfile clones the upstream EventSchedule repository. You can change the source branch or tag by editing `APP_REF` in `docker-compose.yml` or passing `--build-arg APP_REF=...` to `docker compose build`.

## Operational Tips

- **Logs**: View service logs with `docker compose logs -f <service>`.
- **Migrations**: The entrypoint runs `php artisan migrate --force` on startup. Run additional artisan commands via `docker compose exec app php artisan ...`.
- **Database access**: Connect to MariaDB on `localhost:3306` (when exposed) using credentials defined in `.env`.
- **Updating dependencies**: Rebuild the `app` image (`docker compose build app`) after modifying Composer or npm dependencies.

## Changelog

See [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) for a history of notable updates.

## License

This repository packages the upstream EventSchedule application, which is subject to its own license. Review the upstream project for licensing details and ensure compliance when deploying.
